This project uses Flask, HTML, and CSS components, similar to the Finance problem set. Our homepage contains a textbox and button for the user to submit their sentence. After they press the submit button, the program transitions over to app.py, where it is able to fetch the user’s input and work with it in python.

Specifically, we used the Spotipy python library heavily in this project, a public library that allowed us to extract information from different Spotify tracks. First, Spotify needed a client ID and a secret client ID that correspond to one of our Spotify accounts (Ivy registered her’s with Spotify web developers). These two IDs activate the actual code.

We created two separate tabs: one that is able to create a table that contains songs (and their corresponding artists), with each song containing a word from the sentence input and one that is able to create a table that contains a list of artists, each of which contains a word from the sentence.

First, let’s talk about the songs table. We were able to take the user’s inputted sentence and split it into a list by the spaces. With that list, we looped over all the words and used the Spotipy search function to display a song with the current word in it, along with the corresponding artists. In order to imitate a database, we created a dictionary for each song containing their track name and artist name. Then, by the end of the loop, we’ve created a list of dictionaries, similar to the cs50 database. Thus, we were able to use the render_template function to redirect the user to a page that displays all the track name and artist information (playlist_songs.html).

The implementation of the artists table is quite similar. We take the user’s sentence input, and loop over all the words, searching each one as an artist instead of a song track. Therefore, at the end of the loop, we just have a list of artist names that we can render into a table in the resulting HTML page (playlist_artists.html).